hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory today we're going to be
talking all about turning a bad job
into an opportunity
[Music]
once you master this and realize that
you don't have to stay in a bad job that
you can either leave or turn it into a
rad job and that there actually is a
process to doing that things will get a
lot better i've seen so many people live
lives that they hate because we spend so
many of our working hours at our job if
you don't love your job yikes it is
brutal on the total quality of your life
all right so let's dive into this topic
and see what we can do to help you guys
make the most out of whatever job you
have
all right first what tips do you have
for someone who wants to grow with their
current company
so the key here is recognizing that
there really is only one path to success
and that is you're going to have to set
the bar ridiculously high and then
surpass all expectations you want to
really show people that you are capable
of doing things that other people cannot
when you can
outperform other people and i know
nobody likes to think this is a
competition but the reality is
when you can do things that other people
can't do
and if those things are valued by the
company you are going to move quickly
through that company even if your boss
is trying to steal your ideas which i
know is something that happens to a lot
of people
if you really are the person that's
coming up with the ideas
and your boss wouldn't be able to get
very far without them you've got
leverage
and so understanding that being able to
outperform people is always the right
answer that's where i would focus okay
then the next thing is so i've got this
amazing skill set then the next thing is
when i'm always going to be growing my
skill set day after day two i'm going to
take my job description and i'm going to
say all right this is the stuff that i
have to get done in the first half of my
day and do it extremely well and then in
the second half of my day i'm going to
go find other projects that the company
is trying to get accomplished see what i
can do to help help other people take on
responsibility for projects that are
beyond my job description and then i'm
going to do them just as well as i do my
actual main job
people that do that are worth their
weight in gold not only will you endear
yourself to the people that you're
helping but when you go to your boss and
say hey are there other projects that i
could take on maybe even things that are
outside of the exact department that
you're in that's going to be a huge help
almost every company is looking for
people that
show initiative and are able to be
trusted with additional projects and if
you're in a company where they just
aren't interested in that they don't
want people that show initiative which
by the way i challenge i think if you
put me into a company even with strict
hierarchies even with political intrigue
all that stuff that i would find a way
to be useful to other people that i
would find a way to help other people uh
oh there's a quote
i'm gonna paraphrase it go something
like this it's amazing what you can
accomplish when you don't care about the
credit
so if you don't care about getting the
credit and you're just helping people
i think people are definitely going to
take that help now the key is that you
make yourself indispensable to them once
you're indispensable to them now you
have that leverage and so being able to
use that leverage to illustrate that you
have a long track record of high level
performance within the company now when
you go and start asking for a raise
you're going to be much more likely to
get it and here is the secret to getting
a raise go to your boss or whatever
department it is you're trying to move
into and ask them what would it look
like i want this title or i want to make
this much money what would i have to
deliver to you in order to get that and
if you get them to explain to you like
hey if you were able to do x y z thing
that would be no brainer i would
definitely put you forward for that
promotion
amazing now you know exactly what you
need to do now you just need to go make
sure that you get the skill set that's
going to allow you to do that better
than other people now my thing is i'm
always trying to reach beyond what i'm
getting paid to do because remember i
started out as an employee okay i've not
always owned my own companies so when i
was an employee that's what i was
thinking about like i want to be
indispensable i want to i want people
that fear of loss with me i want them to
be afraid that i'm going to leave
because i am delivering so much value
i'm not saying that's not my job
instead i'm saying what does a company
need and then i'm helping the company
get that thing and so when you're able
to assess what problems the company is
facing and help make those problems go
away you become extraordinarily valuable
when you're communicating very directly
about what you want and finding out what
you would need to do to get there and
then delivering against that you're
going to find yourself going up when
you're constantly helping other people
with their projects and delivering a
high level of quality and not asking for
the credit for that you're just doing it
because you want to help people
while i have no doubt some people will
take advantage of you the vast majority
of people will not and you will find
yourself meeting those people again and
again and people wanting to champion you
and lift you up
if you run that strategy i'm telling you
right now you will be able to make
things happen in your current company
what kinds of thought practices can i
implement in order to approach my job
differently okay to really answer that
question i would have to know how you're
approaching your job now but the best
way to approach any job is to again
instead of asking what your job
description is to figure out what
problems the company faces and what role
can you play in helping make those
problems go away now the key to doing
that is to really getting into
a nitty gritty tactical understanding of
what the high level goals for the
company are okay so you should be able
to find those out and if your company
isn't broadcasting those you have
another problem
but
find out what your company's high level
goals are
find out how your department has goals
that are feeding into the company level
goals and then figure out what you can
do on an individual level in order to
help yourself or help the company
achieve those goals so there should be a
direct line from what you're doing to
what your department's trying to
accomplish to what the company's trying
to accomplish so that you know as you're
working on that thing that you're
actually contributing in a meaningful
way so that you can point to something
and say hey
that thing contributed to this project
contributed to that goal right and when
people can actually track your
deliverables and they see the things you
worked on and how that fed into these
very meaningful goals that's how you
begin to develop that fear of loss and
get people to think of you anew so as
you're trying to think about your own
job differently you're trying to change
the way that people perceive you you
want them to perceive you
as a problem solver and if you were to
ask me what is one attribute that is
just worth its weight in gold that i'm
always looking for in any teammate here
at impact theory it is
problem solving i don't want to have to
solve all the problems by myself i don't
want to have to come up with all the
ideas
people often think that their boss wants
to come up with all the ideas i promise
you even if your boss is stealing all of
your ideas they don't want to have to
think of them and so you can make
yourself indispensable and then leverage
being indispensable to either get out
from under a boss that's just stealing
your ideas to make it just
undeniable that you're the one coming up
with these ideas
but performance is always the key
now even if
all you do
is leverage that performance to get
another job at a different company
being able to say i did this this this
help with this this and this and
you can
convey that in a way that makes it
pretty obvious that in fact you were
delivering a high level of performance
because you can articulate it so clearly
you really are able to demonstrate that
skill set
you have a free ticket to go wherever
you want but the key is don't think of
yourself as being bound by your job
description think of yourself as being
bound by your skill set
by wanting to put that skill set to use
against the goals that the company have
when you do that
now you've got the right frame of
reference for what your job is
what kinds of things can you do to
balance your job and something you love
without facing burnout burnout is a
tricky beast
burnout has a lot to do with the things
that you
i won't just say love doing
but they have a lot to do with aligning
the things you're doing with things that
give you more energy so whatever it is
that you're engaging with you want to
find a way
to
really engage with that in a meaningful
way and so there are a couple parts to
that so number one you want to make sure
that you understand the why
that you're doing this so that you can
attach meaning and purpose to it when
you've got meaning and purpose behind
something everything changes
getting good at life being good at your
job succeeding paying the bills all of
this stuff is so hard that if you don't
have a why that you're able to plug in
so i'm paying my bills so that i can
support my family all right that's an
incredible why but you really want to
think about that you want to focus on
that
and then the other is just making sure
that you're able to engage with it in a
way that allows you to experience
progress so getting better at something
and moving forward in your life is one
of the foundational pillars of human
happiness and so making sure that you
are finding ways to engage with what
you're doing in such a way that it
allows you to be fed while you're doing
this instead of having the energy
stripped away okay that's part one part
two in all of this is making sure that
you understand
an idea that a lot of people myself
included who like to be ultra hardcore
have to really learn
and that is doing less is always an
option
okay doing less is always an option so
if you're starting to feel burned out
you need to pump the brakes and i always
tell myself i don't do overwhelm
now i don't say that because i can carry
an infinite weight i cannot i have my
limitations just like anybody else
but the reason that i don't burn out is
because as i feel myself getting close
to my limitations i don't tell myself
like come on like you can do anything
just keep going
now i am hardcore i'll be the first to
admit that i make sure that i'm leaving
it out in the field that i'm playing as
hard as i can
but i make the demand that even hard
work is done in a joyful manner so i am
at all times pursuing fulfillment in a
joyful manner it just so happens that
fulfillment by nature
is working really hard to gain a set of
skills that allow you to serve not only
yourself but other people okay working
really hard that's part of it that's
that's a directive inside of our brains
given to us by evolution so you have a
directive in your brain to work hard and
if you don't work hard there will be a
sense of dis ease in your life you won't
feel right something will feel like it's
missing you won't know what it is you'll
be grasping for something and it will
seem like it's going to be a thing you
need to get to attain whatever when in
reality you need to work hard
that working hard there's a reason that
working out leaves you with this amazing
feeling nature had to incentivize that
you would work hard because going out
hunting foraging protecting your family
all of that stuff was brutally difficult
when you you know go back hundreds of
thousands of years
and that's what we came up through and
so nature only has two tools pleasure
and pain if you're doing the right
things pleasure if you're doing the
wrong things or not doing something you
should be doing like working hard then
walloped with pain you get
so
that's a key you want to be working hard
towards something that matters and
allows you to serve not only yourself
but other people
when you start doing that now all of a
sudden you're back in that energizing
mode you don't have to worry about
burning out but working hard is a key
part of this but when i get to the point
where it's like all right i'm i'm really
working hard but i'm now reaching a
limit where even with all the meaning
and purpose and all the joyful pursuit
of fulfillment i'm now reaching a point
where this isn't fun
you need to acknowledge that and back
off
that's not the time to keep pushing
right you needed to gut check yourself
you needed to make sure that you weren't
just being lazy but when you realize i'm
not being lazy this is just not fun
i'm now at a point of diminishing
returns need to be honest about that
acknowledge it trust yourself to have
busted your ass that you don't just grab
for the uh what was me you know i'm
exhausted it's like no man i've really
played hard i've really gone after this
i've made sure that there's meaning and
purpose i've made sure that i'm pursuing
fulfillment i've made sure that there's
progress in my life but now we've hit a
point it's
not enjoyable
back off
relax
take a tuesday off
meditate daily
find some way
to get calm
and creative
prioritize your sleep
make sure you're eating right and
exercising all of these things matter a
lot
when it comes to burnout
so
be very thoughtful
that
even something that you love
that you recognize there can be a point
where you just need space you need a
minute you need to take some down time
and that you actually allow yourself to
take down time but that you're checking
yourself to make sure you're not just
being lazy what is that my friends i am
very excited to announce that impact
theory's major web 3 project codenamed
the avatar project is almost here as
most of you know for the past year we've
been focused on building the future of
this company in web 3. if you've already
joined us as a founder's key holder you
know exactly what i'm talking about we
have so many different reveals for the
project coming up guys including the
real name glimpses of the characters the
world and more so invite you to join me
in my discord channel for more
information and frequent competitions
and challenges when you click the link
on the screen you can accept that invite
and once you verify that you're not a
robot
with or without any knowledge of web3
you'll instantly be a part of the most
empowering community i've ever put
together and will make sure to keep you
up to date with upcoming news about
avatar get ready to level up click the
link and join me in the discord until
then be legendary take care peace
i'm not in love with my job but i have
no dream or passion to succeed further
i don't know what else to do i feel like
this job has taken all creativity and
imagination away from me what do you
recommend for someone like me
all right so first and foremost
we are going to have to figure out
what exactly has happened
so
is it that you don't have a dream or
passion because you haven't taken the
time to
define that because let me be very clear
passion is not
an archaeological dig
it's an architectural build
so you don't turn inwards look inside
yourself and find this glowing ember of
passion and excitement
that's been sitting there since birth
despite that some people will tell you
that that's how this works but it is not
if steve jobs were born a thousand years
ago he would not have dreamed of making
the iphone
what ends up happening
is you decide
there is something that you decide means
enough to you that you're going to
invest in it
and then over time that investment turns
that thing into a
deep and abiding passion as you get
better and you get feedback from the
world that they value this thing that
you're getting better at
but it isn't just
lying dormant within you and this is
like the number one confusion that i
encounter with people is they think that
either they're broken
and other people
were born with a passion and they were
not
or
they just think that
you know if i do enough introspection
i'm gonna find something sitting inside
of me
and finally my life will be amazing
once you realize that in fact what
happens is when you look inside all
you're going to find are these
sparks of interest
and from that spark of interest
through pursuing it
as
a process of gaining mastery
it will become a passion
when you're able to use that skill set
that you gained in the pursuit of
mastery to serve not only yourself but
other people okay so doing that now
you're in this passion loop of you
worked really hard you gained a set of
skills allows you to serve other people
they give you feedback oh my god thank
you this is so amazing i'm grateful for
what you've done built created given me
whatever the case may be and that feels
good which makes you want to go get
better and that's the passion loop
now as you're doing that
you're able to
really be energized by the things you're
doing
but
it doesn't start by looking inward and
finding something it starts by realizing
that you have to fan those flames of
that spark of interest to turn it into
the raging inferno that you want to feel
of that passion but that comes from that
loop
okay so that's the first thing to assess
now if you already have
or had a passion but this job has
somehow beaten it out of you that's a
very different story and so if that's
what's going on we need to figure out
what is it in the structure of that that
is robbing you of that what's going on
exactly that's making this overwhelming
or stressful or not fun is it politics
in the office is it just the work
environment is too fast-paced is it that
you're not being honest with yourself
about you know going back to this idea
50 of you is hardwired 50 of you as
malleable if the hard-wired part is out
of step with the life that you're trying
to lead there can be a lot of
frustration there so having the
self-awareness to understand did you put
yourself in the wrong position are you
trying to be steve jobs when you should
be steve wozniak that's a really
imperative thing to look at now i find
that a lot of times
companies have their own issues whenever
you get a large group of people together
there are going to be weird things that
have to be navigated but at the end of
the day
while you can't control everything that
everybody does you can always control
how you react and so you can reorient
yourself within a company to figure out
one if there's a
path back to finding that joy but that
comes from breaking down what exactly
happened that made you stop feeling the
joy
and two are you able to perform at a
high enough level that you're able to
create the space for you to get back on
track because if you're going to go in
and try to move things around and make
some changes within the company or
within your role or within how things
work you're going to need to be
performing at a very high level to have
the credibility to make that ask and
this is where it gets difficult nobody
wants to hear this i get it everybody
wants to point fingers and say this is
just a toxic company but in reality if
it's that bad leave
do not waste time start find another job
first i'm not just saying quit
find another job but get out of there
don't act like you're actually in prison
you are not actually in prison and yes i
understand that you have
obligations and you may be a single
parent with kids and huge responsibility
i completely understand and i have the
most empathy for that in the world but i
want you to understand
you are only as trapped as you allow
yourself to be if you have a useful
skill set you will be able to find
another job and now is the time to go
looking for that while you're still
getting paid
now if you don't have skill set that's
marketable that's where we have to start
and so
building up the skill set
so that we can be marketable somewhere
else that's going to give us the ability
to perform where we are or leave if it's
too toxic but assuming that we're going
to stay
now we need that skill set to perform at
a very high level to create the
credibility to make the ask and go to
your boss or whomever is creating or
maybe not even creating the problem but
who has the ability to help you create
the solution now you go and say i'm
performing at a high level yes yes oh my
god you're amazing okay cool here are
the things that i would need to change
so often people's first instinct is just
peace out and they don't realize that
there are many things that they could
have done
to restructure the role to create more
space for themselves in order to stay
but what people end up letting happen is
they let themselves burn out and then
they want to leave and go somewhere else
not realizing that they will have the
same problem at the next job
and instead of doing the work themselves
solving the internal problem of how we
ended up here whether it's lack of skill
set not setting boundaries whatever the
case may be
but keeping that ownership keeping that
responsibility recognizing that if you
make different choices you get different
outcomes so that you can go ahead and
change things there now again if you
want to leave leave by all means take
your skill set and go elsewhere but make
sure that you're not doing what i was
doing in my early 20s when i was about
to move to new york because i was
unhappy in la and i thought that l.a was
a problem when in reality it was my
mindset once i changed my mindset
suddenly it was amazing
because it wasn't about la
it was about me and i thought ah like
something's got to change and so i just
wanted to go as far away as i could but
it wouldn't have solved the problem i
would have gotten to new york only to
have the same issue again and again and
again
i had to address my mindset and once i
did that then everything changed
so
be very careful be very thoughtful about
how you approach unwinding this problem
if you're always blaming other people
you're not going to get where you want
to go because you're not looking for the
things that you can do differently
you're
letting your psychological immune system
take over
make it other people's problems
and then you're not able to
change
and once you realize that your life
is an exact reflection of your choices
now it's not so you feel bad it's so
that you remember if you make different
choices you get different outcomes and
so now you can make these changes or
gain more skills or whatever it is
that's needed to get the life that you
want now no matter where you go you will
feel completely comfortable that you can
shape things to your liking but you have
to know how the game works
you have to know that building skill set
is the key you have to know that
communicating with your boss what's
working what's not working and to have
earned the credibility to make the ask
do all that you have no problem
i have financial obligations to stay at
my current job it has made me feel more
depressed than i can say
how do i find purpose and fulfillment in
a job like this
okay
we have to figure out why you're feeling
depressed
is it your financial obligations
is it that you hate this job and really
the question you should be asking is how
do i find another job so let me ask you
a question have you ever written down in
a single sentence
what your ideal job is
i find that oftentimes the reason that
people's lives are not what they want
them to be is because they lack clarity
there's a great tony robbins quote if
you don't know where you want to be in
five years
you're already there
that one hit me so hard the first time i
heard it
if you don't know where you want to be
in five years you're already there where
you are now is where you're going to be
in five years 10 years
because you don't have the clarity
to steer towards something else
because ultimately this is a steering
problem
we have to know where we want to go we
have to figure out how do we end up here
how did we end up in a job that we hate
is it that
we chose the wrong job
is it that we let ourselves be the
boiled frog where it was just well that
decision wasn't so bad
okay that i don't love that but whatever
it's fine and it's just day after day
month after month year after year
it's things like that where things have
gotten worse you never set boundaries
you never push back you didn't gain new
skills so that you could demonstrate
that you're capable of more you didn't
take on additional responsibilities and
carve your own path through the company
are you waiting for people to come to
you and
tell you hey you should apply for this
new role
a lot of times people are waiting
because they don't have the clarity
or a lot of times they're afraid to go
after it they know what they want but
they either haven't built the skill set
or
they're so afraid of rejection they
don't even try
on that you're going to have to build
some i won't say fearlessness because
you're going to be afraid but you've got
to be willing to embarrass yourself
you've got to be willing to fail like
you've got to be able to sit in failure
and be okay with it because let me tell
you the people that end up succeeding
are not the ones that just never make a
mistake
they're the ones that aren't afraid to
make a mistake or they're certainly not
paralyzed by it right there's that
amazing michael jordan commercial where
he's talking about you know i've missed
this many
game-winning shots and
i've failed this many times and it's
because
i have failed that many times that i've
had the successful career that i've had
now it sounds counterintuitive so you
need to understand what's really going
on
what's really going on is that you have
to be willing to take those risks it
isn't that you will never fail it's just
that you miss
of the shots you don't take
you are guaranteed to stay where you are
if you never try to reach for anything
more
a guarantee it is a guarantee it's
guaranteed you're never going anywhere
else
if you don't try you are never going
anywhere else it is 100 guaranteed
so
you're going to embarrass yourself
you're going to make mistakes you're
going to look stupid and if you can
emotionally deal with that then you'll
actually get better because every
attempt that you make you get a little
bit better at least if you're willing to
be honest about the ones that failed why
they failed own that responsibility so
that you understand next time i can make
a different choice and get a different
result
you do that enough it's what i call the
physics of progress
you
take your best guess
you try it fail to some degree improve
start over again try something new fail
to some degree and you just keep
iterating like that until you get better
and better and better and better and
better and you make that progress
that's really the key
but you have to
do the work you have to be honest with
yourself you have to take responsibility
you have to keep trying you can't give
up
if you hate your job and you want to
find fulfillment and you want purpose
you also have to
assign meaning and purpose
like a passion there is no meaning and
purpose hiding inside of you there are
things that you care about for sure
and your goal is to look inside of
yourself
and to find one of those things that
matters to you and say i'm going to make
this really matter i'm going to make
this the meaning and purpose behind what
i'm doing
now again if you haven't read the book
man search for meaning read it
viktor frankl talks about exactly how
you assign meaning and purpose to
something so that you can suffer and go
through difficult things all the while
knowing why
you're doing this
why am i doing this when you have a
compelling answer to that question you
will move forward if you don't have a
compelling answer that question you will
not move forward so
we're going to
make sure that we figure out
how we've ended up here
why we're depressed
and then we're going to assign meaning
and purpose
we're going to work
to get the skill set that we need to
make progress
towards this thing that matters right
because it's not enough to just have
something that matters you've taken the
time you've assigned meaning and purpose
to this thing that you're doing but now
you actually need to make progress
towards that and that's all about skill
acquisition so this requires you to be
very honest with yourself about how you
ended up here retain your power by
really looking at things from what did i
do to end up here versus making this
somebody else's problem oh it's a toxic
work culture the environment here is
terrible my boss is an idiot don't do
even if those things are true don't
waste any time with that because you
can't control that what you can control
is what you do how you react
so focus on that assign that meaning and
purpose get the skill set you need in
order to make meaningful progress
towards that and it will turn you around
in terms of how you feel and then
remember you can always leave so if your
work really is that terrible
then go somewhere else just don't forget
all of your problems are going to follow
you so solve
the mindset issues first
and then see how that manifests in terms
of your job that's it those ideas i
think will serve you very very well but
you have to put them to use and speaking
of putting good things to use if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care peace